Stop octavia services in stop_openstack_services role (#728)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/modules/proc_adopting-the-loadbalancer-service.adoc

----

. (Optional) Public SSH key of Amphorae
+
These commands will copy the existing public SSH key that can be used for connecting to the amphorae and installs it in Openshift.
+
[source,bash]
----
include::../../tests/roles/octavia_adoption/tasks/octavia_ssh.yaml[lines="7..20",indent=0]
----

. Add the {loadbalancer_service} interfaces to each `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resource (CR). The following command adds the network interface to use as the VLAN base interface for the management network for network isolation on the {OpenShiftShort} nodes:
+
----
$ oc get -n openstack --no-headers nncp | cut -f 1 -d ' ' | while read ; do
    oc patch -n openstack nncp $REPLY --type=merge --patch '
    spec:
      desiredState:
        interfaces:
        - description: Octavia vlan host interface
          name: enp6s0.24
          state: up
          type: vlan
          vlan:
            base-iface: <enp6s0> <1>
            id: 24
        - bridge:
            options:
              stp:
                enabled: false
            port:
            - name: enp6s0.24
          description: Configuring bridge octbr

>           mtu: <1500> <2>

Author: @klgill this does not seem to get formatted correctly. See https://logserver.rdoproject.org/28/728/881548ec6e05c6ebb75404d0bcca4027c121bd8f/github-check/adoption-docs-preview/f2b0162/docs_build/docs_build/adoption-user/index-downstream.html#adopting-the-loadbalancer-service_adopt-control-plane

Do you know how to fix this?

Reviewer: I think having two numbers in a row is confusing the system. Would it be okay to replace `<1500>` with `<mtu>`? 

And you'll also need to replace `<1500>` in the footnote below the code. e.g.,:
	<2> Replace `<mtu>` with the `mtu` value in your environment.

= Adopting the {loadbalancer_service}

To adopt the {loadbalancer_first_ref}, you patch an existing `OpenStackControlPlane` custom resource (CR) where the {loadbalancer_service} is disabled. The patch starts the service with the configuration parameters that are provided by the {rhos_prev_long} ({OpenStackShort}) environment. Existing load balancers fail over after the adoption process. This is necessary to upgrade their image and set up a network connection with the new control plane.

.Procedure

. Create an alias for the `openstack` command
+
[source,bash]
----
$ alias openstack="oc exec -t openstackclient -- openstack"
----
. Certificates
+
Use the
`CONTROLLER1_SCP` shell variable to set the value of the existing
`CONTROLLER1_SSH` variable:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ CONTROLLER1_SCP=$(echo "$CONTROLLER1_SSH" | sed 's/^ssh/scp/g')
----

> . Run the following set of commands to regenerate the keys and certificates and install the data in {rhocp_long}. These commands convert the existing single certificate authority (CA) configuration into a

Reviewer 2: Could drop "set of" or maybe even drop "Run the following set of commands to" for fluff. Could change "These commands regenerate the keys and certificates and insert them into {rhocp_long}. " to "You can use these commands to regenerate the keys and certificates and insert them into {rhocp_long}." to make it more user-focused.

dual CA configuration:
+
----
include::../../tests/roles/octavia_adoption/tasks/octavia_certs.yaml[lines="7..83",indent=0]
----

. (Optional) Public SSH key of Amphorae
+

> These commands will copy the existing public SSH key that can be used for connecting to the amphorae and installs it in Openshift.

Reviewer 2: I'd also drop "will". I think we don't really use future tense in our docs. "can be used" is passive, could change to "that you can use". Are "these commands" the previous commands or the next commands? Maybe something like:
"Copy the existing public SSH key that you can use for connecting to the amphorae and install it in Openshift:"

+
[source,bash]
----
include::../../tests/roles/octavia_adoption/tasks/octavia_ssh.yaml[lines="7..20",indent=0]
----

> . Add the {loadbalancer_service} interfaces to each `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resource (CR). The following command adds the network interface to use as the VLAN base interface for the management network for network isolation on the {OpenShiftShort} nodes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Add the {loadbalancer_service} interfaces to each `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resource (CR). The following command configures the VLAN base interface for the management network on the {OpenShiftShort} nodes. This is necessary for network isolation.
```

Reviewer 2: I might drop "the following command" to make it more instructional. 
Maybe:
"Add the network interface for the VLAN base interface of the management network for network isolation on the {OpenShiftShort} nodes:"

Is the "management network for network isolation" a thing or is "network isolation" like a goal of these steps? If it's the latter, could say: "To isolate the management network, add the network interface for the VLAN base interface:"

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure of the wording at the moment but the idea here is that there is a host interface added to the octavia network attachment's bridge. This is there because a bridge style network attachment is needed to be usable with the OVN/OVS (macvlan doesn't work in this case) but bridge NAD's do not provide connectivity between hosts. If that host interface is a VLAN interface, then there is some isolation between the octavia load balancer management network traffic and other networks.

Author: How about we just say "Add the {loadbalancer_service} interfaces to each `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resource (CR)." and leave away the rest that is not really relevant to the user?

. (Optional) Public SSH key of Amphorae
+
These commands will copy the existing public SSH key that can be used for connecting to the amphorae and installs it in Openshift.
+
[source,bash]
----
include::../../tests/roles/dataplane_adoption/tasks/octavia_certs.yaml[lines="7..83",indent=0]
include::../../tests/roles/octavia_adoption/tasks/octavia_ssh.yaml[lines="7..20",indent=0]
----

These commands convert the existing single CA configuration into a dual CA configuration.
. Add the {loadbalancer_service} interfaces to each `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resource (CR). The following command adds the network interface to use as the VLAN base interface for the management network for network isolation on the {OpenShiftShort} nodes:
+
----
$ oc get -n openstack --no-headers nncp | cut -f 1 -d ' ' | while read; do

// == TODO: Other things
// TODO
interfaces=$(oc get nncp $REPLY -o jsonpath="{.spec.desiredState.interfaces[*].name}")

== Enabling the {loadbalancer_service} in OpenShift

> Run the following command in order to enable the {loadbalancer_service} CR.

Reviewer 2: Could just say:
"Enable the {loadbalancer_service} CR:"

{
    "op": "add",
    "path": "/spec/desiredState/interfaces/-",
    "value": {
      "description": "Octavia Bridge",
      "mtu": <mtu>, <2>
      "state": "up",
      "type": "linux-bridge",
      "name": "octbr",
      "bridge": {
        "options": { "stp": { "enabled": "false" } },
        "port": [ { "name": "enp6s0.24" } ]
        }
    }
}]'

done
----
+
<1> Replace `<enp6s0>` with the name of the network interface in your {OpenShiftShort} setup.
<2> Replace `<mtu>` with the `mtu` value in your environment.

> . Configure the {loadbalancer_service} network attachment definition to connect pods that manage load balancer virtual machines (amphorae) and the OpenvSwitch pods that are managed by the OVN operator:

Reviewer 3: Here I'm unsure if this means that you're providing network connectivity to both the pods that manage load balancer virtual machines and the OpenvSwitch pods that are managed by the OVN operator, or if you are more specifically connecting them to each other. So the following suggestion might not be correct.
```suggestion
. Configure the {loadbalancer_service} network attachment definition to connect pods that manage load balancer virtual machines (amphorae) to the OpenvSwitch pods that are managed by the OVN operator:
```

Reviewer 2: could put the goal or outcome first:
"To connect pods that manage load balancer virtual machines (amphorae) and the OpenvSwitch pods that are managed by the OVN operator, configure the {loadbalancer_service} network attachment definition:"

I'm not sure if we have style guidelines on this

        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
      octaviaHealthManager:
        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
      octaviaWorker:
        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
'
----

. Wait for the {loadbalancer_service} control plane services CRs to be ready:
+
----
$ oc wait --for condition=Ready --timeout=600s octavia.octavia.openstack.org/octavia
----

. Ensure that the {loadbalancer_service} is registered in the {identity_service}:
+
----
$ openstack service list | grep load-balancer
| bd078ca6f90c4b86a48801f45eb6f0d7 | octavia   | load-balancer |
$ openstack endpoint list | grep load-balancer
| f1ae7756b6164baf9cb82a1a670067a2 | regionOne | octavia      | load-balancer | True    | public    | https://octavia-public-openstack.apps-crc.testing                     |
| ff3222b4621843669e89843395213049 | regionOne | octavia      | load-balancer | True    | internal  | http://octavia-internal.openstack.svc:9876                            |
----

. Change the `ONBOOT` option in the network script for the management interface to `no`:

.. Connect to each of the Controller nodes on the old control plane, for example, `overcloud-controller-0`.

> .. Open the configuration script for the management interface. For example:

Reviewer 2: Oh I see that is mentioned in next line. Could maybe say:
"Open the  management interface configuration script in a text editor such as `vi`:"

+
----
$ sudo vi /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-o-hm0
----
+

> The exact name of the script depends on the previous `OctaviaMgmtPortDevName` setting.

Reviewer 2: Maybe:
"The script name is based on the `OctaviaMgmtPortDevName` setting and might differ in your environment. "

> .. Change `ONBOOT=yes` to `ONBOOT=no` so that the interface does not get enabled automatically on reboot:

Reviewer 2: "Change `ONBOOT=yes` to `ONBOOT=no` to ensure that the interface is disabled on reboot:"

+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------+---------------+
| 4fa6a793-4c20-4480-be4f-806912840511 | octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha_profile | amphora       |
| d9764a80-99f5-4f22-bbe0-3ddbdc5c485c | amphora-4vcpus                   | amphora       |
| e75e50c8-7786-4623-abcf-bccbea59d213 | amphora                          | amphora       |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------+---------------+
$ openstack loadbalancer flavorprofile delete octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha_profile
$ openstack loadbalancer flavorprofile list
+--------------------------------------+----------------+---------------+
| id                                   | name           | provider_name |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+---------------+
| d9764a80-99f5-4f22-bbe0-3ddbdc5c485c | amphora-4vcpus | amphora       |
| e75e50c8-7786-4623-abcf-bccbea59d213 | amphora        | amphora       |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+---------------+
----

. Delete the old management network ports:
+
The first command stores the network ID of the old management network in the

> variable `WALLABY_LB_MGMT_NET_ID` for later use. Then, all ports that are used in the network get deleted.

Reviewer 3: This looks like it should be two steps

= Adopting the {loadbalancer_service}

To adopt the {loadbalancer_first_ref}, you patch an existing `OpenStackControlPlane` custom resource (CR) where the {loadbalancer_service} is disabled. The patch starts the service with the configuration parameters that are provided by the {rhos_prev_long} ({OpenStackShort}) environment. Existing load balancers fail over after the adoption process to upgrade their image, and set up a network connection with the new control plane.

.Procedure

> . Create an alias for the `openstack` command
> +
> [source,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create an alias for the `openstack` command:
+
```

----
$ alias openstack="oc exec -t openstackclient -- openstack"
----

> . Certificates
> +
> Use the
> `CONTROLLER1_SCP` shell variable to set the value of the existing
> `CONTROLLER1_SSH` variable:
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> $ CONTROLLER1_SCP=$(echo "$CONTROLLER1_SSH" | sed 's/^ssh/scp/g')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the `CONTROLLER1_SCP` shell variable to set the value of the existing
`CONTROLLER1_SSH` variable:
+
----
$ CONTROLLER1_SCP=$(echo "$CONTROLLER1_SSH" | sed 's/^ssh/scp/g')
```

----

. Run the following set of commands to regenerate the keys and certificates and install the data in {rhocp_long}. . Convert the existing single certificate authority (CA) configuration into a dual CA configuration. You can use these commands to regenerate the keys and certificates and insert them into {rhocp_long}.
+
----
include::../../tests/roles/octavia_adoption/tasks/octavia_certs.yaml[lines="7..83",indent=0]
----

> . (Optional) Public SSH key of Amphorae
> +
> These commands copy the existing public SSH key that that you can use for connecting to the amphorae and installs it into Openshift.
> +
> [source,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optional: Copy the existing public SSH key that you can use for connecting to the amphorae and install it into Openshift:
+
```

During the adoption process the {loadbalancer_first_ref} service
must stay disabled in the new control plane.

== Control plane adoption steps

. Create an alias for the `openstack` command
+
[source,bash]
----

> $ alias openstack="oc exec -t openstackclient -- openstack"

Reviewer 4: Would 'oc rsh openstackclient' be a better choice here?'

Author: Why? `oc rsh openstackclient` would create an interactive shell with that pod, so the openstack commands below would not work the same way. Also, lots of other services use the same alias, so using something else would be confusing.

----
. Certificates
+
Before running the script below set the
`CONTROLLER1_SCP` shell variable based on the value of the
existing `CONTROLLER1_SSH` variable:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ CONTROLLER1_SCP=$(echo "$CONTROLLER1_SSH" | sed 's/^ssh/scp/g')
----
+
Then run the following set of commands in order to regenerate the
keys and certificates and install the data in OpenShift. These
commands convert the existing single CA configuration into a
dual CA configuration.
+
[source,bash]
----
include::../../tests/roles/dataplane_adoption/tasks/octavia_certs.yaml[lines="7..83",indent=0]
----

. Add the octavia interfaces to each NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy.
+
The following command adds the network interface that is being
used as the VLAN base interface for the management network
(in this example `enp6s0`) for network isolation on the OpenShift nodes.
Please replace `enp6s0` with the name of the network interface in your

> OpenShift setup.

Reviewer 4: You might want to add a comment that the mtu value is only an example and may differ depending on the requirments (or something like that)

Author: Thanks. Added.

+
The `octavia` network attachment is needed to connect pods
that manage amphorae
and the OpenvSwitch pods (managed by the OVN operator):
+
[source,bash]
----
$ cat >> octavia-nad.yaml << EOF_CAT
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  labels:
    osp/net: octavia
  name: octavia
  namespace: openstack
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "octavia",
      "type": "bridge",
      "bridge": "octbr",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.23.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.23.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.23.0.70",
        "routes": [
           {
             "dst": "172.24.0.0/16",
             "gw" : "172.23.0.150"
           }
         ]
      }
    }
EOF_CAT
$ oc apply -n openstack -f octavia-nad.yaml
----

. Enable the {loadbalancer_service} service in OpenShift
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc patch openstackcontrolplane openstack -n openstack --type=merge --patch '
spec:
  ovn:
    template:
      ovnController:
        nicMappings:
          octavia: octbr
  octavia:
    enabled: true
    template:
      apacheContainerImage: registry.redhat.io/rhel8/httpd-24:latest

>       amphoraImageContainerImage: quay.io/gthiemonge/octavia-amphora-image

Reviewer 4: I guess we don't have an upstream image yet ;)

Author: AFAIK we don't, but I guess for this documentation it is acceptable.

      amphoraImageContainerImage: quay.io/gthiemonge/octavia-amphora-image
      databaseInstance: openstack
      octaviaHousekeeping:
        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
      octaviaHealthManager:
        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
      octaviaWorker:
        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
'
----

. Wait for the {loadbalancer_service} control plane services CRs to become ready
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc wait --for condition=Ready --timeout=300s octavia.octavia.openstack.org octavia
----
+

. Ensure the {loadbalancer_service} service is registered in the {identity_service}:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ openstack service list | grep load-balancer
| bd078ca6f90c4b86a48801f45eb6f0d7 | octavia   | load-balancer |
$ openstack endpoint list | grep load-balancer
| f1ae7756b6164baf9cb82a1a670067a2 | regionOne | octavia      | load-balancer | True    | public    | https://octavia-public-openstack.apps-crc.testing                     |
| ff3222b4621843669e89843395213049 | regionOne | octavia      | load-balancer | True    | internal  | http://octavia-internal.openstack.svc:9876                            |
----

> == Clean up old resources

Author: TODO: Add to tests

> During the adoption process the {loadbalancer_first_ref} service
> must stay disabled in the new control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the adoption process the {loadbalancer_first_ref} service
must stay disabled in the new control plane.
```
@weinimo Instead of this intro, would it make sense to say the following?
"To adopt the {loadbalancer_first_ref}, you patch an existing `OpenStackControlPlane` custom resource (CR) where the {loadbalancer_service} is disabled. The patch starts the service with the configuration parameters that are provided by the {rhos_prev_long} ({OpenStackShort}) environment."

^ Is this accurate? Do we want to add more detail?

Reviewer: Great, thank you. I have very minor edits on the last two sentences. You can copy and paste the following: 

Existing load balancers fail over after the adoption process. This is necessary to upgrade their image and set up a network connection with the new control plane.

== Control plane adoption steps

. Create an alias for the `openstack` command
+
[source,bash]
----
$ alias openstack="oc exec -t openstackclient -- openstack"
----
. Certificates
+
Before running the script below set the
`CONTROLLER1_SCP` shell variable based on the value of the
existing `CONTROLLER1_SSH` variable:
+
[source,bash]

> ----

Reviewer: I have a slight edit. How about:
Use the `CONTROLLER1_SCP` shell variable to set the value of the existing `CONTROLLER1_SSH` variable:

$ CONTROLLER1_SCP=$(echo "$CONTROLLER1_SSH" | sed 's/^ssh/scp/g')
----
+
Then run the following set of commands in order to regenerate the
keys and certificates and install the data in OpenShift. These
commands convert the existing single CA configuration into a
dual CA configuration.
+
[source,bash]
----
include::../../tests/roles/octavia_adoption/tasks/octavia_certs.yaml[lines="7..83",indent=0]

> ----

Author: We can include that line in downstream docs. However, it will need to be adjusted of course. We will need to copy that octavia_certs.yaml file and adjust the include path if needed. 

It might be simpler to just replace the include line with octavia_certs.yaml's content starting from line 7. I did not do it here because that would mean I'd have to update two locations each time I update the script and that is error prone. I guess that is less of an issue with downstream docs that won't change as often.

. (Optional) Public SSH key of Amphorae
+
These commands will copy the existing public SSH key that can be used for connecting to the amphorae and installs it in Openshift.
+
[source,bash]
----
include::../../tests/roles/octavia_adoption/tasks/octavia_ssh.yaml[lines="7..20",indent=0]

> ----

Author: It's basically the same answer as with the other include. Since that code in the YAML is much simpler here and less likely to change I would lean even more towards replacing it with the file's content D/S.

> . Add the octavia interfaces to each NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy.
> +
> The following command adds the network interface that is being
> used as the VLAN base interface for the management network
> (in this example `enp6s0`) for network isolation on the OpenShift nodes.
> Please replace `enp6s0` with the name of the network interface in your
> OpenShift setup. The correct mtu value depends on the requirements of your environment and might need to be changed as well.
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> oc get -n openstack --no-headers nncp | cut -f 1 -d ' ' | while read ; do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the {loadbalancer_service} interfaces to each `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resource (CR). The following command adds the network interface to use as the VLAN base interface for the management network for network isolation on the {OpenShiftShort} nodes:
+
----
$ oc get -n openstack --no-headers nncp | cut -f 1 -d ' ' | while read ; do
```

Author: Just out of curiousity, what's wrong with that [source,bash] line? I thought it would do some useful syntax highlighting.

    oc patch -n openstack nncp $REPLY --type=merge --patch '
    spec:
      desiredState:
        interfaces:
        - description: Octavia vlan host interface
          name: enp6s0.24
          state: up
          type: vlan
          vlan:

>             base-iface: enp6s0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            base-iface: <enp6s0> <1>
```

            id: 24
        - bridge:
            options:
              stp:
                enabled: false
            port:
            - name: enp6s0.24
          description: Configuring bridge octbr

>           mtu: 1500

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          mtu: <1500> <2>
```

          name: octbr
          state: up
          type: linux-bridge
    '
done

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
<1> Replace `<enp6s0>` with the name of the network interface in your {OpenShiftShort} setup. 
<2> Replace `<1500>` with the `mtu `value in your environment.
```

> . Configure the network attachment definition
> +
> The `octavia` network attachment is needed to connect pods
> that manage amphorae
> and the OpenvSwitch pods (managed by the OVN operator):
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the {loadbalancer_service} network attachment definition to connect pods that manage load balancer virtual machines (amphorae) and the OpenvSwitch pods that are managed by the OVN operator: 
+
----
```

$ cat >> octavia-nad.yaml << EOF_CAT
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  labels:
    osp/net: octavia
  name: octavia
  namespace: openstack
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "octavia",
      "type": "bridge",
      "bridge": "octbr",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.23.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.23.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.23.0.70",
        "routes": [
           {
             "dst": "172.24.0.0/16",
             "gw" : "172.23.0.150"
           }
         ]
      }
    }
EOF_CAT
$ oc apply -n openstack -f octavia-nad.yaml
----

> . Enable the {loadbalancer_service} service in OpenShift
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enable the {loadbalancer_service} service in {OpenShiftShort}:
+
----
```

> $ oc patch openstackcontrolplane openstack -n openstack --type=merge --patch '

Author: This object exists only after `make openstack_deploy`:
```
$ oc get openstackcontrolplanes.core.openstack.org --all-namespaces 
NAMESPACE   NAME                                 STATUS   MESSAGE
openstack   openstack-galera-network-isolation   True     Setup complete
```

spec:
  ovn:
    template:
      ovnController:
        networkAttachment: tenant
        nicMappings:
          octavia: octbr
  octavia:
    enabled: true
    template:
      apacheContainerImage: registry.redhat.io/rhel8/httpd-24:latest

>       amphoraImageContainerImage: quay.io/gthiemonge/octavia-amphora-image

Reviewer: @weinimo I'm not sure if we're using "quay.io" in the downstream docs.

Author: No, this must be replace in downstream docs. I am actually not sure what the right setting for downstream docs is, but I can find out.

      databaseInstance: openstack
      octaviaHousekeeping:
        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
      octaviaHealthManager:
        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
      octaviaWorker:
        networkAttachments:
          - octavia
'
----

> . Wait for the {loadbalancer_service} control plane services CRs to become ready
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Wait for the {loadbalancer_service} control plane services CRs to be ready:
+
----
```

$ oc wait --for condition=Ready --timeout=600s octavia.octavia.openstack.org/octavia
----

> +
> 
> . Ensure the {loadbalancer_service} service is registered in the {identity_service}:
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. Ensure that the {loadbalancer_service} is registered in the {identity_service}:
+
----
```

$ openstack service list | grep load-balancer
| bd078ca6f90c4b86a48801f45eb6f0d7 | octavia   | load-balancer |
$ openstack endpoint list | grep load-balancer
| f1ae7756b6164baf9cb82a1a670067a2 | regionOne | octavia      | load-balancer | True    | public    | https://octavia-public-openstack.apps-crc.testing                     |
| ff3222b4621843669e89843395213049 | regionOne | octavia      | load-balancer | True    | internal  | http://octavia-internal.openstack.svc:9876                            |
----

> == Clean up old resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> . Change the ONBOOT option in the network script for the management interface to no.
> +
> Connect to each of the controllers on the old control plane, open the configuration script for the management interface
> (e.g. `/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-o-hm0`, the exact name depends on the previous `OctaviaMgmtPortDevName` setting).
> Change the line `ONBOOT=yes` to `ONBOOT=no` so the interface does not get enabled automatically on reboot anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Change the `ONBOOT` option in the network script for the management interface to `no`:

.. Connect to each of the Controller nodes on the old control plane:

 .. Open the configuration script for the management interface, for example, `/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-o-hm0`. The exact name depends on the previous `OctaviaMgmtPortDevName` setting.
 
.. Change `ONBOOT=yes` to `ONBOOT=no` so that the interface does not get enabled automatically on reboot:
```
@weinimo I changed the format of the paragraph to substeps. Are there any code examples or commands that we can use for the following substeps?

.. Connect to each of the Controller nodes on the old control plane:

.. Change `ONBOOT=yes` to `ONBOOT=no` so that the interface does not get enabled automatically on reboot:

Author: I will come back to that later. I just noticed that there is probably an indentation problem with your suggestion in line 161.

Author: Hey @klgill, I've edited your suggestion. I changed the line `Open the configuration script...` and fixed the indentation  and added `sudo vi` to show how to edit the file.

Regarding the other point: I found this downstream doc [1]  that explains the first step. In addition to `overcloud-controller-0` the same steps here to be repeated with `overcloud-controller-1`  and `overcloud-controller-2` as well. Is it okay if we leave it here as is and only explain this in DS docs in detail?

[1]: https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openstack_platform/17.1/html/installing_and_managing_red_hat_openstack_platform_with_director/assembly_performing-basic-overcloud-administration-tasks#proc_accessing-overcloud-nodes-through-ssh_performing-basic-overcloud-administration-tasks

```suggestion
. Change the `ONBOOT` option in the network script for the management interface to `no`:

.. Connect to each of the Controller nodes on the old control plane:

.. Open the configuration script for the management interface, for example, `sudo vi /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-o-hm0`. The exact name depends on the previous `OctaviaMgmtPortDevName` setting.
 
.. Change `ONBOOT=yes` to `ONBOOT=no` so that the interface does not get enabled automatically on reboot:
```

> . Delete old flavors that have been migrated
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> $ openstack flavor list --all | grep octavia
> | 484c351a-57ca-4a4b-8e6e-93d31596fec5 | octavia-amphora-4vcpus   | 4096 |    3 |         0 |     4 | False     |
> | 65                                   | octavia_65               | 1024 |    3 |         0 |     1 | False     |
> | amphora-mvcpu-ha                     | octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha | 4096 |    3 |         0 |     4 | False     |
> | cf9d1d80-5680-4ed8-a051-e8ec4c5871e0 | octavia-amphora          | 1024 |    3 |         0 |     1 | False     |
> $ openstack flavor delete octavia_65
> $ openstack flavor delete octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha
> $ openstack flavor list --all | grep octavia
> | 484c351a-57ca-4a4b-8e6e-93d31596fec5 | octavia-amphora-4vcpus | 4096 |    3 |         0 |     4 | False     |
> | cf9d1d80-5680-4ed8-a051-e8ec4c5871e0 | octavia-amphora        | 1024 |    3 |         0 |     1 | False     |
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete old flavors that are migrated to the new control plane:
+
----
$ openstack flavor list --all | grep octavia
| 484c351a-57ca-4a4b-8e6e-93d31596fec5 | octavia-amphora-4vcpus   | 4096 |    3 |         0 |     4 | False     |
| 65                                   | octavia_65               | 1024 |    3 |         0 |     1 | False     |
| amphora-mvcpu-ha                     | octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha | 4096 |    3 |         0 |     4 | False     |
| cf9d1d80-5680-4ed8-a051-e8ec4c5871e0 | octavia-amphora          | 1024 |    3 |         0 |     1 | False     |
$ openstack flavor delete octavia_65
$ openstack flavor delete octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha
$ openstack flavor list --all | grep octavia
| 484c351a-57ca-4a4b-8e6e-93d31596fec5 | octavia-amphora-4vcpus | 4096 |    3 |         0 |     4 | False     |
| cf9d1d80-5680-4ed8-a051-e8ec4c5871e0 | octavia-amphora        | 1024 |    3 |         0 |     1 | False     |
----
```

> . Delete old octavia flavors that have been migrated
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete old {loadbalancer_service} flavors that are migrated to the new control plane:
+
----
```

| 6d649fd5-6322-4265-b5f3-c3277fc29ec8 | amphora-4vcpus           | d9764a80-99f5-4f22-bbe0-3ddbdc5c485c | True    |
| 93f34308-24a7-42de-9065-959a3b36e7f6 | amphora                  | e75e50c8-7786-4623-abcf-bccbea59d213 | True    |
+--------------------------------------+--------------------------+--------------------------------------+---------+
$ openstack loadbalancer flavor delete octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha
$ openstack loadbalancer flavor list
+--------------------------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+---------+
| id                                   | name           | flavor_profile_id                    | enabled |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+---------+
| 6d649fd5-6322-4265-b5f3-c3277fc29ec8 | amphora-4vcpus | d9764a80-99f5-4f22-bbe0-3ddbdc5c485c | True    |
| 93f34308-24a7-42de-9065-959a3b36e7f6 | amphora        | e75e50c8-7786-4623-abcf-bccbea59d213 | True    |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+---------+
----

> . Delete old flavorprofile that have been migrated
> +
> [source,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete old flavor profiles that are migrated to the new control plane:
+
```

| id                                   | name                             | provider_name |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------+---------------+
| 4fa6a793-4c20-4480-be4f-806912840511 | octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha_profile | amphora       |
| d9764a80-99f5-4f22-bbe0-3ddbdc5c485c | amphora-4vcpus                   | amphora       |
| e75e50c8-7786-4623-abcf-bccbea59d213 | amphora                          | amphora       |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------+---------------+
$ openstack loadbalancer flavorprofile delete octavia_amphora-mvcpu-ha_profile
$ openstack loadbalancer flavorprofile list
+--------------------------------------+----------------+---------------+
| id                                   | name           | provider_name |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+---------------+
| d9764a80-99f5-4f22-bbe0-3ddbdc5c485c | amphora-4vcpus | amphora       |
| e75e50c8-7786-4623-abcf-bccbea59d213 | amphora        | amphora       |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+---------------+
----

> . Delete the old management network ports
> +
> The first command stores the network ID of the old management network in the
> variable WALLABY_LB_MGMT_NET_ID for later use. Then all ports that are used in the network get deleted.
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete the old management network ports:
+
The first command stores the network ID of the old management network in the
variable `WALLABY_LB_MGMT_NET_ID` for later use. Then, all ports that are used in the network get deleted.
+
----
```

$ for net_id in $(openstack network list -f value -c ID --name lb-mgmt-net); do desc=$(openstack network show "$net_id" -f value -c description); [ -z "$desc" ] && WALLABY_LB_MGMT_NET_ID="$net_id" ; done
$ echo $WALLABY_LB_MGMT_NET_ID
1e21f9c1-7485-4104-a2f3-eed098ab9cad
$ for id in $(openstack port list --network "$WALLABY_LB_MGMT_NET_ID" -f value -c ID) ; do openstack port delete "$id" ; done
----

> . Delete the old management network
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete the old management network:
+
----
```

$ openstack network delete "$WALLABY_LB_MGMT_NET_ID"
----

> . Verify only one lb-mgmt-net and one lb-mgmt-subnet exists
> +
> [source,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that only one `lb-mgmt-net` and one `lb-mgmt-subnet` exists:
+
```
